hotline League is brought to you by open
by HP and we'll get to the rest
very shortly Ben Fisher 22 is joining
the call Pam Fisher I feel like you've
been on the show before is this this is
true no it's not true
I've just seen you may be in the chat
before you're very recognizable because
I think I'll have a Ron Paul picture of
this court yeah yeah but a long time
watch your first time caller you know
Kay we're gonna then how old are you I'm
20 fuck why are you at 22 at the N I
made it when I was like 12 I think it
was the only it was like the Google
recommended when I put in Ben Fisher
Fisher recalled from I'm in
Charlottesville Virginia right now okay
what do you want to talk about uh yeah
so pretty much I feel like the the whole
idea of scouting in league seems like
kind of BS right now and it feels to me
like it pretty much is just about what
team picks you up how successful the
player ends up I'm pretty curious what
Kelly's thoughts are on this wait well I
mean so you think that scouting doesn't
exist and people are just attributing
the success of are you thinking ability
based on no no specific yeah it doesn't
seem to matter too much like which
player I feel like you could put any any
rookie into TSM and he's gonna do he's
gonna do really well he's gonna end up
being successful right whereas you can
put any rookie on on golden Guardians
and they're gonna be shit you know mmm
you have that you have the inori's and
the and the Mike yongsan Phoenix one
with a little bit of pop off but but it
feels like every rookie that gets picked
up by by it by these like top-tier orgs
and maybe you could say that it's
because it's good scouting but it seems
like a little bit too good to me it
seems like it's mostly and and Mark was
talking earlier about how you know
players look better on better teams it
seems like if you're put in an
environment to succeed you'll succeed
and if you're put in an environment to
fail you'll fail and that the actual
scouting itself
doesn't seem to matter that much so I
think that I think that you're kind of
you're kind of right except that you
will if you are any that's very I think
that maybe maybe what you're trying to
say and please correct me if you feel
like I'm going down the wrong path what
what ultimately will happen is the the
better environment that you are put into
which may be different for each person
and personality type by the way
depending on how you're being developed
what development style you react to and
how the other personality is on your
team work with as far as teammates you
will achieve your best result quickest
and ultimately that can affect the
long-term impact of your career
depending on what you learn in at what
point of your career you learn it and if
you build bad habits and you know you
get burnt out on shit and other stuff
like that and obviously if you get put
in a bad situation I don't think
necessarily you're doomed to be a bad
player but it's certainly gonna put off
you finding that situation where you
become the player that you should be now
I think that some people have shown a
really good aptitude for finding talent
and being able to identify who will
actually work in their system and what
they value as a player as opposed to
what most people do which is like you
know to be frank the only people that
can really identify and pick up
professional league of Legends talent
and put them in a situation where
they're going to succeed are people who
have a very strong understanding of not
only the game but male social dynamics
well because we have all male pro
players right now not to say that
females couldn't exist in the pro scene
but like I think that Reggie has been
the best example of this up into this
point where he has pretty much
exclusively picked winners and done so
in situations where you could have had
alternate higher profile choices
that would have been what a lot of GM's
probably would have taken is the easier
more secure move and I think that it's
sorry let me finish real quick I think
that without Reggie there is zero chance
that TSM ends up at every spring and
summer finals I think that whenever
things go rocky that guy has such a
fundamental core understanding of the
game and knowing how to win that he is
always the person that comes and get
involves with the roster and gets them
put on the right track and he is the
single most important development
component to any North American League
of Legends organization that is existed
up to this point like I say for Korea
Europe or whatever but no I said go for
it so I mean a second ago said look at
Kelby being self gratifying again and ya
know cam it can't agree more so I agree
Reggie is like a huge factor in why TSM
is good but I think his roster decisions
are some of the easiest fucking moves
anyone has ever had to make because
literally everyone is dying to play for
your org due to its size and you just
eat the cream of the crop they have
never developed a single player they
have exclusive eric is a huge to move
already
he was already bio frost I will maybe
grant you two hold on hotter was already
crushing on gravity they picked up York
after he was already crushing in Europe
like I I heard they work he was he was
getting panic kills he was already top
three in Europe he was already sworn to
your out development then just like are
you winning or are you not right well
right so like beard was a top three min
in Europe with froggen and expect eight
in their prime like he was a good player
already and don't get me wrong not
saying they don't improve them but they
don't pick guys out of a hat and make
them work let's see nine has done to an
extent so I I disagree the one player
that they really took do you think that
Jack is the guy at c9 who is picking
these vaa no I never know
yeah yeah so like but glebe is one where
they they try and it was a bomb it just
failed horribly me a busboy and like oh
they get they get turtle well that was
after he already showed that he was a
very confident player multiple times and
then they stopped him in after chaox was
being an idiot or whatever it's like I
disagree that TSM scouting is good I
think that they have the reputation and
ability to get whoever they want once
they stand out which is what they tried
to do again with Mikey on okay
absolutely good I mean do you think
there's really any players that you
couldn't put into like this year's TSM
roster that wouldn't be successful like
in you know what I mean yeah but would
it matter who they pick yeah I think
because then you're left with like well
who's making it good like I think you
can say a great example would be like
TTL has done a good job of identifying
players who are good and then they sign
them but the environment is not super
conducive and and when they move on they
start doing better yeah and so like
that's a team where like Dom picked out
a lot of those players he was a guy
could plays a lot of solo queue he'd
talked to the coaching staff but this
guy stood out he was doing good shit I
liked him and so like I think you can
scout players and you can develop them
but I do think it is very contextual to
not only how good the team is but how
good they like environment like he'll be
was saying right someone where do you
think that environment stems from the
TSM organization like who is dictating
that down
absolutely Reggie yeah yeah yeah I
absolutely agree that like they have a
great environment there I just don't
think that they have taken like a rookie
and like shown that they scouted them
sure I still make the argument that berg
is like when you create a European and
we have seen other top European players
come over to North America especially
amid a lot of them and nobody has turned
out to be a shade of what burek has done
in the NA LCS Jensen and it a lot of
them haven't had as much time gen Jensen
no Jensen's good but Jensen is not
bjergsen I would argue yeah he's he's
better right now
Oh
historically absolutely I'm just
bjergsen's list of accomplishments yeah
yeah yeah Your Honor I'm gonna say and
you're always been real young we picked
him out and yeah he was he was a flashy
Talent
you know somebody who looked really
great not not gonna say like he was
completely unknown obviously but he
didn't take froggen he didn't take xpk
he had the burden of responsibly on his
shoulders to have all of these choices
it is actually harder when you can pick
from everybody no yes no you have you
have a plethora of options out in front
of you and you now have to decide like
they're all like which is actually the
superstar that you're going for when you
only have so many people to choose from
then the amount of mistakes that you can
make as fewer I think your your liquid
example would prove Kelly correct right
because they they pick all of this great
talent but they could never make it work
right because they're not picking they
don't have the correct scouting talent
like he'll be saying which is
personality Oh Scotty was good their
environments were there right right
right right but that would imply that
that picking for talent or like that
there's more to identifying than just
yes you have all these players that you
can pick from right is taking the best
well sure I'm not saying that you can
throw synergy out the window but if you
go up to a buffet and it's like hey put
a bunch of good food on my plate and
you're at a fucking top-tier buffet your
likelihood of getting it right is
substantially higher than if you're at
some fucking bargain dollar club and
it's like hey try make a good appetizing
meal there don't like I fundamentally
disagree that if you if you have to sort
through the best talent in the world
it's more difficult than building a good
roster of all na players great no you
weren't for sure you will have a you
will have a stronger team but to to pick
the generational talent which I would
define bjergsen as right now especially
for the West it is it is harder when you
have everybody out in front of you and
you have more secure bets and he went
for the riskier pick and he panned out
the way that he did Rome is like
then you you want to say it's all this
or it's all all that or it's not this at
all but in reality it's it's all these
different factors together like a team
like TSM has a lot of advantages because
they're in a certain position but then
they've gotten themselves to that
position because of you know just
inherent skill sets that are available
to them in resources that are available
available to them certain teams are
better at scouting than others
I think cloud 9 is a really good example
of a team where like they do great
scouting I mean we were talking about
this ahead of time ever before the LCS
even started people were doubting
licorice and I'm like I just don't doubt
Jack like even if Jack I don't know how
he handles his scouting surely saw him
sitting there watching all these
different right so let streams or
whatever but that guy consistently pulls
random people and then grabs them and
and I I just I feel like yes there are
times where teams get lucky there are
times where scouting is good there's
times where in certain environments
allow you to succeed and there's certain
times where like it's it's not you could
take the best player and put them on a
shitty when they're gonna struggle but
you can also be a great team and scout
someone and and you're just gonna
scouting that's why you tend to be a
good timing I didn't mean to say it was
all one or all the other one I just I
think that the scouting skill seems to
be a little bit overrated it seems like
team environment and constructing a
positive one seems to be drastically
more important I think you're yeah I
think you're right and you're wrong
there and that I actually don't feel
like people talk about scouting talent
too much I mean maybe I'm crazy and I'm
missing stuff but I don't feel like this
is like a big conversation that has has
taken place in the LCS ball partially
because you've seen so much turnover in
teams that like the amount of teams that
can say we're good at scouting a were
bad at scouting a probably limited to
just like a handful secondly I think I
forget the second thing well so what I'd
say to jump in is that there's multiple
kinds of scouting - there's like talent
development scouting which is like great
we have three rookies in the entire
league right now like what do you do you
know you have ando licorice and arguably
solo I think that the only three so like
how much talent scouting really matters
compared
- I understand this person's personality
in my interviews with them in my
discussions in my due diligence I found
that they would probably work well with
these other people yada yada yada
which is where I think you can say 100
thieves scouting seemed pretty good that
these guys all get along well whereas
like I don't know fly quests or maybe
optic you could say this guy he may be
seen worse but who knows what their
options were as well thank you so much
for your call this is actually a really
interesting topic and I don't mind you
being a little hyperbolic with the way
that you said it because I think it's
something I haven't heard too many
people talk about before yeah thanks for
having me guys I love the show love the
content keep it up Thanks
thanks Ben sorry Ron Paul's not an
option for you anymore have a good one
guys
yeah all right yeah I know the thing
that's really different about scouting
in any LCS in particular versus like
traditional sports for example is like
so many of our players we polar from
already you know professional leagues
where we have so much tape and you know
somewhat to what degree they will
compete at the professional level
whereas traditional sports you're
pulling from college or you're pulling
even from high school sometimes and it's
like it's actually understanding how we
think this person will acclimate to the
professional atmosphere all right where
we need to start coming up with some
poor Stan what's wrong but Templar
standards for the names of the people at
the league reference